# Casual Apocalypse

For a moment, even the wind stopped. Mala got up and fumbled through the dark, trying to make sense of it all. What did this even mean?

Mala looked around and saw nothing but the anemic bonfire. This darkness was deeper than when she played locking herself in the pantry, but now there was nothing to munch on. Nothing tasty, at least.

In desperation, the girl threw more dung balls and twigs onto the fire, hoping it would burn brighter. And it did, and it might have bought her a few steps of visible land, but that changed little: the fire’s aura of light had a hard cutoff where it ended, as if a dome of black surrounded her improvised camp.

Mala gathered and covered herself in all the clothes she had, only a single eye poking from the messy tangle of fabrics she’d become. She shivered like a bucket of ice had been poured over her, but not just from the cold. Out of all the times this could have happened, it had to be this one, when she was all vulnerable and alone.

Her mind raced over the faces of all the partying mates she’d met during her travels. All of them fun people, no doubt, but none of them stayed. Gone with the mooncycle. Mala thought this to be normal, every mooncycle finding new people to drink and gamble with, starting over each time. A habit as bad as her other vices, but one that didn’t bring her as much happiness. “Cursed be them all”. None of them cared about her, but then again, neither did she care about them.

She wished she’d made a real friend.

She wiped the snot from her nose and licked the salt out of her lips. She didn’t know how long she’d been crying, but her throat hurt. Still dark, but not like before. She looked around and noticed she was able to discern the mountain ranges in the horizon. It was as if a faded purple halo contoured their silhouette. Faint flashes popped in and out of existence. Maybe a storm, but then she noticed the shadows started shifting.

The ground shook. The stampede began as a mere vibration, like ritual drums booming in the distance, but soon it became an earthquake. The panicked screams of a thousand animals reached her ears: entire packs of mishes howled their lungs out in pain; the blind creatures of the night, drowning in noise, fumbled their echolocation and shrieked in circles, unable to find north; entire flocks of birds desperately flapping their wings, only to crash against the ground, slapped by an unseen hand. One of those birds fell right in front of Mala. She jumped back, trembling.

“What the fuck?!”

And that’s when it struck her: the silhouettes in the horizon were not from mountains, but from brutagartos fleeing from a tangle of limbs larger than them.

Mala was about to jump back into her hole in search of some semblance of safety when she felt a wet tingle between her toes. At first, she thought the insects might have gone mad and started climbing up her leg, but when she looked down, her heart sank.

Something dark had taken root on her feet.

Like liquid night creeping up her body, it dug its tendrils deep inside of her skin, violating her veins and arteries, looking for something more.

Mala fell to the ground, panicked. She kicked and screamed, trying to get it off her, but it was already inside. The little Expiada dug her claws into her calf, shredding apart skin and muscle, to no avail: the darkness was deeper than her hands could reach.

Mala watched in terror as a serpentine black trail traveled up her intestines, then pooled in her stomach. She felt like she was about to burst. She thought of puking it all up, but then it took hold of her throat. She fell silent; one less voice in the chorus of screams. In a desperate attempt to stop the infection, she choked herself, trying to crush the passage. Futile.

It was already in her brain.

Mala’s mind spiraled down. She went blind, she did not feel her body anymore, and yet the world around her spun like a macabre Valanillian carousel. The screams intensified, as if the whole world was in excruciating pain. All she wanted was for them to shut up and be left alone.

Shut up, shut up, shut up.

After an eternity of deafening madness, everything fell silent. Colors flashed before her, red and black, twisting together in circles, spinning like a windmill. It was hypnotic. It had never felt better. Peace and tranquility; just Mala. And, at last, she understood why the animals went insane.

Just like the stars before, so did the void swallow Mala.

And it felt… exhilarating.

---

Mala woke up, face down in the extinguished bonfire, with the familiar taste of ash on her tongue. Her body ached, her head spun, and she felt like emptying the nonexistent contents of her protesting gut through her mouth.

When the events of the last mooncycle hit her mind, she scrambled to her feet. Her heart almost stopped when she remembered the dark substance digging into her body, but…

Mala’s hands started exploring her neck. Nothing, just a regular neck. She moved onto her tummy. Still nothing, just her bejewelled belly button. She knelt and felt her legs. Yup, they were legs. There were some thin scabbed lines above her footwraps, but nothing like the shredded muscles she remembered; it was more like she scratched herself while sleeping.

The girl looked around. The sun shone with force over the steppe, its expected heat already hitting Mala on her head.

So the events of the mooncycle did not come to pass, she thought. Mayhaps an oneiric terror?

“Bad dream”, she mumbled.

Mala sat inside the narrow rift, which had already started to feel like home. She washed down the dust in her mouth with a sip of her flask, which tasted of high glory. Despite the headache, she felt refreshed like never before.

What in the world was that dream? It felt too real, too visceral, but it was like the world had already moved on from apocalypse: everything was as it used to be: bright, hot, and silent. The skies were clear, mountain ranges just visible in the distance. Static.

It was all too confusing.

Mala pressed her eyes with her fingers for a moment, then unpacked the map from her backpack. The only nearby settlement was Bodega. The strained look on her face changed in an instant.

“Ooh, booze!”

The girl looked in the direction where Bodega should be. East. Ish. She expected to see nothing, as it seemed to be a day of travel away, but she saw a thin smoke column coming from a distance. The thought of it being lunchtime already crossed her mind, but she instantly regretted thinking about food again.

Mala began packing her stuff, shoving the scattered clothes with newfound spirit into the bag.

She set off with her mind full of thoughts about drinking and eating, failing to notice the bird’s broken carcass hiding in the tall grass.

---

Bodega was in a state of total disarray.

The column of smoke she saw came from every house, and not from their chimneys. Something, or someone, had attempted to burn down the village, but the solid mud brick constructions did not yield. In fact, the damage to the actual buildings seemed minimal.

However, that was not everything wrong with the place. Bloodstains on the ground, broken glass, the limping tending to the motionless… a pile of charred corpses. Mala was not ignorant of death, but it still sent a shock down her spine. The way the burnt fat in the air clung to her skin and her clothes made her sick to her stomach.

The villagers looked like they had been working the whole suncycle without rest, judging by their weary, elongated faces. Carrying rubbish away from the streets, taking care of the burnt and wounded, holding back the tears for those who were lost. No one sat still: work had to be done for the collective good.

A group of four scrawny dwarves sat next to what seemed to be the town hall, chained by hands and feet, as if they were the perpetrators of a horrible crime, and seemingly unfazed by their predicament. Not even the whippings of their master seemed to draw a reaction from them, eyes wide open under their bushy eyebrows. No flinching; passive even by dwarf standards.

Mala walked, mouth agape, through the few and brief streets of Bodega. To the uneducated eye, it would seem the little Expiada was surveying the damage, but, in fact, she was just looking for the tavern.

Mala heard the percussive footsteps of a pair of high heels approaching her. A sharp and fresh herbal essence invaded her nostrils.

“You smell like corruption”, a cheerful female voice crooned. “Do you want me to suck it out of you?”

Mala froze. Her internal monologue offered an eloquent I beg your pardon?

Her mouth, however, had a different plan. She spun around.

“The fuck is wrong with you?!”, shouted Mala.

A young, dark-skinned Lenamite woman towered over Mala. It’s not like this woman was tall (in fact, she was on the shorter end for Lenamites), just that Mala was that short. The mysterious individual wore a sharp side-shave haircut, the rest of her hair worn long. Her orange slit eyes widened behind black mascara, her lips puckered, like she just realized she said something wrong.

“Ah, my apologies”, the woman said, pressing her manicured hand to her chest in a way that made her green airy robes flow. The green lipstick caught the light as she spoke. “I have not introduced myself. My name is Menta. Mystic. Nice to meet you!”

Mala was unsure of whether she should disclose her identity or just run away.

“Uhh…”

“Look, I am sure you have many questions”, Menta continued, leaning in. “But I beg you. Just let me drink the corruption out of you. Please?”

“How are you not in the slammer?”

Menta giggled.

“Aha! My natural charm enchants all the sheriffs!” she announced with a wide grin, throwing her flowy hair back with a dramatic flair.

However, as soon as her hair stopped moving, she dropped to her knees in front of Mala, bringing them face-to-face, her brows furrowing like she was about to cry. “Come on, just a sip! I need it!”

Mala stared at the pathetic woman’s teary eyes.

“Grab me some booze and I will think 'bout it.”

---

“Read the room, you two!”

As soon as they entered, the bartender kicked them (literally) out of his establishment. They fell face-first into the narrow alleyway behind the tavern.

Turns out the gaping cracks in the wall weren’t supposed to be welcoming open doors.

“¡Hostia puta!”, Mala screamed, spitting into the ground. “What do I have to do in this turd of a world to get my buzz?!”

“Hey, calm down,” said Menta, although it was obvious she was also starting to grow desperate. “I am sure we will be able to find alcohol in a place named Bodega. I promise! Just…”

“You not from 'round here, ain’t ya?”, interrupted Mala.

“No. I arrived like… two mooncycles ago. Well, one if you don’t count the…”

Mala’s heart sank. For a moment, it felt like time itself froze.

“The what?”, whispered Mala.

Menta looked down at her, confused by Mala’s sudden loss of bravado. “What do you mean ‘the what’? Did you sleep through the entire thing?”

Mala felt all the heat leave her body.

“The sun went dark. Like, totally dark”, said Menta. "Then everyone went mad. Did you really manage to sleep through it all?

The events of the last mooncycle resurfaced in Mala’s mind. The total darkness, the stampede, the… substance crawling under her skin. How it felt like swallowing molten lead when it took hold of her throat. How it drilled her skull. *My identity, obliterated.*

And how it felt right.

“A… black thing…”, Mala mumbled under her breath.

“Ah, yes. That’s normal.”

Mala’s head snapped.

“The FUCK you mean that’s normal?!”

“Okay, okay, maybe it’s not normal *normal*”, remarked Menta, “but it can happen. It happened to me too, once", she continued. "Not the moons thing, I have no idea what that was; the corruption is what I mean."

Menta grinned, her slit eyes narrowing, and continued.

“But it felt good, didn’t it?”