# Corruption

After many minutes of running and hours of walking under the sun through sharp gravel and dry grass, the pair were convinced they'd lost the sheriff. They used their last bit of strength to climb a nearby boulder before collapsing on it.

Mala and Menta sat cross-legged, treating their bleeding feet with a minty antiseptic lotion Menta had prepared with her oils. Mala's ears recoiled whenever the liquid seeped in one of her wounds.

"Stings", Mala mentioned, pinching together one of the cuts in her soles.

"That means it's doing its work", replied Menta, voice flat and tired. She didn't dare look up.

"Look, *shur*, 'bout the whole harlot thing..."

"It's okay, kid. It's not that, it's just..." Menta didn't even finish the sentence.

Mala scanned Menta with her analytical eye. Lips twitching, watery slit eyes, trembling chin... Mala had never seen someone trying so hard not to cry. Her own brow furrowed, bothered by the fact that it bothered her.

*I must devise a stratagem to snap Menta from her self-loathing stupor.*

"It 'cuz you fucked the sheriff?"

Menta jumped to her feet, hissed in pain when her soles made contact with the hot stone, and then resumed her indignant fuss. *Mission accomplished.*

"No! What?! Where did you even learn those words?"

Mala gave Menta a blank stare.

"I don't know what kind of girl you think I am!" Menta exclaimed, hand pressed to her chest. "But I will let you know: I am chaste and pure!"

"Yah, sure."

Menta threw her hands in the air. She slumped back down onto the boulder.

"We barely know each other! How can you be making so many correct assumptions about me?"

"Game recognizes game."

Menta groaned and fell back onto the boulder, defeated.

"You've got a lot to explain", said Mala, lying back next to Menta. Mala tucked her arms behind her head. "Get to it."

And Menta explained. No, explaining is not quite the right word: she *overshared*. How her great-great-grandfather was born from a Saur egg, giving the entire maternal line those slit eyes and forked tongues; how she was born to a merchant ship captain father and—

"You got a ship?!"

"My father did. Anyway, let me finish!"

—how he had been mangled beyond recognition in an unfortunate tackle box incident, scooped into a bucket; how her mother had grown cold since the aftermath and Menta had to turn to the support of *la calle* to carry on; how she subsisted as a wandering fortune-teller... and how she had always been able to sense something was off with certain people or objects. Turns out Menta wasn't lying about being a mystic, just exaggerating her abilities: she *did* exorcise items in the past, but never managed to not creep out a person when trying the same thing on them. She hoped the process was intuitive, like with the rest of her powers.

Notably absent from her biography was the whole ordeal with the sheriff.

Mala turned her head towards Menta. Menta was already looking at Mala, both wearing faint smiles.

"Me, I..." Mala mumbled, hands now resting on her stomach. "I jus' wanna be the *bestest* pioneer ever."

"A bit difficult when we are in the middle of nowhere after the apocalypse, don't you think?"

Mala sat up, her big eyes sparkling with excitement under the sun.

"No, this the best time!" Mala shouted. "If the rest of the world is as fucked as Bodega we can conquer it easy!"

Menta chuckled, covering her mouth with her hand.

"You sound like a lil' sociopath, kid", Menta said. "That's so cute."

"Am not cute!"

Menta giggled, then her laugh trailed off. She began tracing a crack in the boulder with her manicured finger, her face turning serious in an instant.

"Look, the rest of the world..." Menta pressed her fingers to her eyes. "It may be worse off than Bodega."

Mala's ears drooped. "What? Why?"

Menta remained quiet, only the sound of chirping insects interrupting the silence. After a few seconds, she dared to speak.

"Fire protects, you know?"

Then it clicked.

"Aha! It was you who burned the city! That why you smelled of ash!", said Mala.

"I can't keep any secrets from you, can I?" Menta said, a shy smile on her lips.

"So that why the damage was minimal! It was on purpose!"

"It kept the villagers mostly sane, mostly safe". Menta sat up, hugging her legs. "Fire is like a little sun; it staves off corruption, it prevents the dwarves from going rampant. As you saw, it was not infallible: the dwarves did attempt to escape and even managed to break some buildings in the process; and, guessing by the sheriff's temper, darkness might have gotten a bit into their heads, but I shiver to think about how other places may be now"

"But did you have to fuck the sheriff?"

"Absolutely", replied Menta. "Do you think I am sneaky enough to not get caught burning an entire village?"

"Fair enough", said Mala. " Anyway, how do you even know 'bout all that? I thought the whole *fire protects* thingy was less... metaphysical."

Menta raised an eyebrow at Mala uttering that word with almost practiced ease.

"I told you, it's intuitive", replied Menta. "What's not intuitive is the word *metaphysical*. Been reading some dense stuff, have we?"

"Uh... don't matter. Wanna play the cleansing ritual wit' me?"

---

Not so far away from Bodega, in the borderlands of the Empire, a different outlandish pair walked straight into the proverbial mishes' den.

A hulking, shirtless Lenamite man and a masked woman in too-warm-for-Solmen black clothes walked through the rubble of Frontera; the town used to be the last outpost expeditioners visited before leaving the confines of the Empire of Lenam, but now it was little more than a crater.

"Such devastation...", muttered the man.

The woman, on the other hand, remained silent. She crouched near a shattered pavement stone, inspecting a footprint-shaped crack on it.

"The dwarves must have transformed during the anomalous mooncycle", the woman stated, her voice deep and raspy.

"Do you think the dwarves did all this?", said the man, resting his weight on the shaft of his war hoe.

"Frontera had a garrison and they could have taken them down. This...", the woman paused to inhale. "They were overwhelmed."

"So... the entire village, you suggest? Like our caravan?"

"The whole world may have gone mad."

The town was devoid of presence, color and everything that makes a life worth living. Brutalized cadavers behind every corner, ruined buildings. Whatever transpired in Bodega was but a pale shadow of what hit Frontera. No one was spared; no one, but...

The man noticed a figure in the distance, standing motionless near the collapsed town hall, its head turned straight towards the scorching sun.

"¡*Amigo*! ¡*Amigo*!", he shouted, waving towards the only survivor in sight. "Worry not! Civilian or bandit, we have come to help!"

The figure did not react.

"Speak for yourself, Ungar. I don't want to help no bandits", the woman whispered in the man's ear.

"We'll talk about that later", Ungar replied through gritted teeth. "Necessity has no law."

Ungar walked towards the mysterious person with an uneasy feeling in the back of his mind. The closer he got, the slower his steps became. Despite his hesitation, he made his way to the survivor, who happened to be a tall Lenamite man in a torn *lorica musculata* and a bronze helmet. Blood seeped from the many perforations and slashes in his armor, as if he had been in combat with a monster, and yet, he seemed to be in good health. Or, at least, good physical health.

Ungar grabbed the soldier's shoulder with the confidence of an old friend.

Then the world held still.

It was the same sensation he had during that fateful mooncycle. The sun stopped warming him, and yet he didn't feel cold. The woman was shouting at him in the distance, and yet he didn't hear her at all. Air left his lungs, and yet he didn't suffocate. Dread, and yet tranquility.

The soldier's neck snapped back with a sickening crunch. His skin had taken on an unnatural pale sheen, like lacquered porcelain or wax. His eyes were gone from his face, replaced with two dark pits. Ungar stared into them, almost noticing something in their paradoxical depth... but he was cut short.

A gladius cut through Ungar's unprotected ribs.

"Espiperina! Help!"

Espiperina had already drawn her crossbow and was aiming at the soldier's head from behind a collapsed wall.

"Hold him still, Ungar!"

He realized the futility of compressing his wound at the moment. With shaky, bloodied hands, Ungar gripped the aberrant man's neck, but the soldier's trachea did not collapse. It was as if it had been hardened by an unholy force.

Holding the soldier at an arm's length, Ungar's fist hammered his opponent's face. Punch after punch, the man's face grew cracks, as if his skin was made of brittle ceramic. The facade began to peel, holes revealing the innards of where his cheeks or chin used to be.

There was nothing underneath.

"What the...?!"

Espiperina kept aiming, Ungar kept hitting. In their short time together, they'd become accustomed to each other's approach to combat, but Ungar's faith in his companion was starting to falter.

The soldier, unfazed by the fact that half of his face was now missing, grabbed the arm that was gripping his neck. In an instant, Ungar's elbow was bent at an unnatural angle. He screamed in pain. Before he could clutch his mangled forearm, the soldier headbutted him, sending him flying several ecsas away.

Espiperina kept lining the perfect shot. It's what her master had taught her: headshot or bust. A drop of sweat ran down her neck; even in her deep focus, she was starting to worry for the life of her friend, and even her training itself.

The soldier's neck turned towards Espiperina.

Ungar jumped out from the rubble and tackled the enemy with his shoulder. Despite using the full force of his massive body weight, Ungar was unable to push the soldier away. It felt like running against an iron pole.

The soldier continued his march towards the woman.

Ungar wrapped his good arm around the soldier's neck from behind. All he could do was attempt to slow him down.

"Shoot!"

Espiperina took the shot.

A massive bolt went through the soldier's forehead. A black liquid seeped through the hole as the man fell unceremoniously to the ground, like a puppet getting its strings cut.

Ungar sat on the ground, spent. He tested the mobility of his own arm with little success; a grimace on his face every time he attempted to bend it. Resigned, he compressed the wound on his side. Espiperina stowed her crossbow behind her and ran towards her friend.

"Stop touching your arm! You are going to get yourself hurt worse. Come here, let me immobilize it", the woman rested her hands on her knees next to Ungar.

"I think my side may be a more pressing matter."

"Pressing? Or compressing?"

Ungar stared at Espiperina in silence. Her smiling mask wasn't helping.

"Okay, I will go grab the first aid kit. Stay here."

She was about to go find the backpack she dropped at the first signs of combat, but when she stood up, she noticed them: faces began popping up from behind ruined walls, windows, doors. Some were small, others wrinkled. All silent.

---

Menta wept in exasperation, black mascara running down her cheeks. "Why isn't this working?!"

Mala had grown numb to Menta's incessant crying. They had spent the last three hours trying out many different rituals Menta had made up on the spot, even if she insisted otherwise; of course, none of them worked.

*The prospect of maintaining the corruption inside of me becomes more attractive with each passing minute.*

Menta was curled into a ball next to the boulder, lying on the dirty ground; she'd stopped caring about things like looking prime and proper the moment the ash rubbing ritual failed. Between the makeup, dirt, oils, and ash, Mala now looked more like a shoddy clay golem with a black wig than a person.

"Yo Menta, so what if we—"

Menta jumped to her now cloth-bound feet, tears no longer running down her face.

"Wait, I have an idea for a ritual!"

She grabbed Mala's knife from the floor and went on to cut a blade of tall grass. After some additional cuts, she got herself an improvised straw.

And then she plunged it into Mala's forehead.

Mala shrieked and flailed like a madwoman.

"Hold still, I gotta suck out the corruption!"

"Leave me alone, you bloody lunatic!", Mala shouted, breaking the straw with her hands.

Menta pouted, lecturing Mala waving the remains of the straw. "What are we going to do if you still have the corruption within you?"

"I can learn to live wit' it!"

"You don't even know what it does!"

"And neither do you!", Mala jumped from the boulder. "So what if I get antsy like the sheriff?"

"Mala, it's not about you. It's about me. I want that corruption". Menta closed her eyes and inhaled. "I want to remember that feeling of oneness and fullness. The comprehension, the understanding". Her hands began roaming her neck, then her hair. "The beautiful colors spiraling in front of me. I want my ego to die and be reborn. I want to go back to the womb and meet my real mother for the first time". A moan escaped her lips, her forked tongue flickering out to taste the dry air. "Mala, you understand, don't you?"

Wind ran across the dry grass. Mala broke her silence.

"I... I want some of that shit."