# Frontera

Mala and Menta, ignoring the dangers of travelling alone, had decided that the best course of action was to walk to the nearest city where they weren't wanted: Frontera, the jumping-off point for everyone who wanted to venture beyond the Empire of Lenam. The caravan that had dumped Mala in the middle of the steppe was headed there, and Mala could only think of how she would rub her survival in the caravaneer's face. Well, she was thinking about food, too. Mostly about food.

"You think there'll be bread?", asked Mala.

"I don't know."

"Cheese?"

"I don't know."

"Dino eggs?"

"I don't know either."

"Wine?"

"*Niña*, how are you going to pay for all these things?"

Mala just stared at Menta like the answer wasn't obvious.

"Of course." Menta buried her face in her hands. "Look, while I feel that it's my duty to protect you now that we're on the run because of me, I hope for the sake of us both that you can pull your own weight!"

"Ay, don't worry, *shur*. Consider it a loan, yeah? I'll make it back by, uh... you think there'll be a casino in Frontera?"

Menta sighed. "I am not sure there will be much of anything."

The road to Frontera was long and miraculously uneventful. The *Vía Interior* hadn't reached Bodega or Frontera yet, not by a long stretch, but the constant traffic of caravans and people had tamed a strip of the steppe into a de facto road. It was bumpy, narrow, and with none of the niceties that the Empire's highways offered, but the tall grass below had been trampled into ground fibers.

By the time Frontera's high walls were visible in the distance, their legs were begging for help. The sky turned purple, the temperature dropped: the twin moons were converging around the sun, preparing themselves for another long mooncycle.

The two girls didn't know if the events of the last one would repeat.

No one in Solmen did.

The wooden gates to Frontera had been blown off their hinges. Not inward, but out. Someone, or something, had besieged the city from within. Wooden chips the size of knives carpeted the road, while the door's metal filigrees twisted like wire, bent away from their place.

The market stalls that had set shop at the entrances? Trampled. Nothing of value survived among the remains of torn and tattered awnings and broken tables. The colored clothes of the stands and the many stripped festoons scattered around the ground made the place look like a flattened circus tent.

"What a waste", whispered Mala, squatting to pick up a slimy fragment of dino egg shell from the ground. Judging by the smell, it had been rotting in the sun since the last long mooncycle.

Menta, on the other hand, wasn't so nonchalant about the situation: she was trying to contain the shivers these ruins gave her, without success.

Mala wiped her hand on her trousers and grabbed Menta's hand, then dragged her into the city; no matter how scary the thought was, venturing inside was safer than standing around at the outskirts during a twin mooncycle.

But the inside was worse than the outside.

Buildings reduced to their foundation, blood puddles around every corner, the remains of trained soldiers brought to their knees by an exalted mob... Few doors and windows remained in their place, as if a legion of *sacamantecas* had gone house by house looking for fresh victims, harvesting them with surgical silence. Mala didn't dare peer inside any home, but Menta failed to ignore the call of the void.

She fell back, holding back a scream with her hands.

Mala ran to Menta's side and held her by the shoulder.

Mala needn't say anything: Menta, still holding her mouth with one hand, still holding back tears, pointed in the direction of a house with the door open wide. Mala knew better than to follow her friend's finger with her eyes.

"A-a ch... a ch..." Menta managed to wheeze.

Mala didn't need to look inside to understand. She grit her teeth. For the sake of them both, she had to act tough.

"Get a grip! You gonna see a lot worse here!" Mala hissed, her voice cracking despite the bravado.

"But..."

"No buts!" Mala fumbled for her flask, still half full, and forced Menta to drink from it. "Would someone from *la calle* cry now? No, right?"

Menta, cheeks still full of water, nodded in silence. She seemed to understand: now was not the moment to shed tears. They had to be silent. Smarter. Or else they would be dead.

Under the sound of Menta gulping down the water, Mala's sensitive ears picked up a different, sharp noise in the far distance, like a ceramic jar breaking. Unintelligible chatter followed, and then silence again.

*Friend or foe? Matters not: we shall not be caught unawares.*

Mala searched with her sight for the nearest signs of struggle, places where the weapons of downed combatants may lie. She spotted trampled ground, dried blood splatters, and a few nondescript bodies. One of them, however, belonged to what looked to be a soldier from the local garrison.

Mala approached the armored corpse and squatted next to it. The odor of hours of decomposition under the scorching sun was nauseating, to the point Mala had to pinch her nose to avoid breathing through it. The soldier had died clutching a spear in one of his hands; he must have been overwhelmed by the onslaught of crazed people the mooncycle produced.

Mala used all of her force to snatch the spear from its death-locked hands, pulling back with help from her puny weight. The process proved difficult, as she was still pinching her nose with one of her hands. After some struggle, the fingers gave way with a series of sickening wet snaps.

She tried to lift the spear over her head like a weightlifter, but it was too big and heavy; the girl lost her balance and fell to the ground. The weapon was more suited for someone of Lenamite genes, like Menta, than a scrawny Expiada child like Mala. She grabbed the spear again, and dragged it—blunt end on the ground—to her friend, who was already getting up.

Menta accepted the weapon with both hands and brandished it with rusty confidence.

"Agogé?" Mala asked.

"First few years." Menta confirmed.

"Good."

Mala walked back to the soldier's body. Standard issue equipment for warriors of the Empire of Lenam included a gladius as a backup weapon. Indeed, the gladius was there, still sheathed. The poor sod must have forgotten his training amidst the chaos and held onto the spear, even though the gladius was a sounder tactical option when surrounded.

Mala struggled to take the belt with the blade off the soldier's body, but, after some tugging, she managed to detach it, sword and all. She adjusted the belt around her waist, but, since even the innermost notch was too loose for her narrow build, she decided it would be best to wear it as a bandolier.

Mala took the sword from its scabbard, and brandished it the only way she knew: like it was an oversized knife. In her hands, the gladius looked more like a longsword than the compact weapon it was supposed to be.

"Follow me." Mala whispered.

Armed, the two girls sneaked through the narrower streets in the direction of the sound.

Advancing, Mala deduced the sound must have come from a building near the town square: as they approached the center of Frontera, Mala's ears started picking up more and more whispers... and a booming male voice shouting without any care in the world.

"... but fear not, for we swear protection to this town! As soon as I—"

"Shhh!"

Some more whispering chatter, and then silence.

"You heard that?" Mala asked Menta, whispering.

"The what?" Menta replied.

"They know we here, I think."

The pair continued advancing, this time taking care of the sound their steps made, moving between dark alleys, hiding behind walls and crates. What Mala heard had sounded friendly, but you can never know: it could be a bandit leader offering his services. If that was the case, Mala hoped they were recruiting.

Mala and Menta peeked at the road ahead from behind a messy pile of crates. The town square was in sight; a nondescript crowd gathered in a circle around a point they couldn't see, hidden behind a building.

A woman cleared her throat behind them before they could focus on details.

"Well, if it isn't two *rateras* from *la calle* we have here!" The mysterious woman crooned.

Mala and Menta turned around.

They found themselves facing a woman wearing a simple white mask with its mouth curved into a sly smile. Blonde hair fell from the sides of her hood, flowing over her shoulders in a beautiful, shiny cascade. Her head and torso were covered by a black fur coat, thin but far too warm for Solmen's heat, let alone the steppe; yet she didn't seem to mind the heat.

In her hands, she held a loaded crossbow, but it was lowered, and her fingers didn't quite meet the trigger.

"How you know?!" Mala shouted, but then caught Menta staring daggers at her. "I mean... how the fuck you sneak behind us?"

"There will be time for explanations later. But first: are you survivors, or opportunists?"

Mala and Menta looked at each other, and replied in unison.

"Both?"

The woman shrugged.

"Fine with me."

The woman pointed with her head towards the town square. Neither wanted to argue with someone capable of fooling Mala's ears, so they began walking. The masked individual followed behind.

"Thanks for not pointing at us with that thing." Menta whispered, her head turned back towards their escort. "I know that must have taken restraint."

The town square was a mess, like everything in this forsaken city, and yet, it was... lively. Sort of.

While children and the elderly huddled together around someone in the middle of the square, the able-bodied carried supplies around: crates full of stale-looking bread, jars filled to the brim with water, and even boxes with bottles of wine. Menta had to grab Mala by the shoulder before she ran towards them.

The three women made their way through the gathered survivors: Mala slipping through the legs of the taller Lenamites, Menta gently pushing people aside, and the mysterious woman walking through as everyone made way for her.

At the center, a hulking shirtless man, with a bandage around his chest and a splinted left arm, picked up and organized the supplies being brought to the center of the square.

"What did I say about carrying weight?" Asked the mysterious woman.

"'Tis barely heavy for me!" The burly man replied.

Mala and the man's eyes locked. For a moment, they froze, the man still carrying a crate in his one good hand.

"Hey, you..." Mala said, pointing at the man.

"By the Maker!" The crate almost slipped from his hand. "Are you not that drunkard kid who got expelled from the caravan?"

"Yeah, that's me! Still alive, assholes!" Mala bumped her chest with her fist. "So, where the fuck is the caravaneer? I wanna rub my alive ass in his face."

"He's dead." Replied the masked woman.

"Oh, dang." Mala pumped her fist when no one was looking.

The man hauled a few more crates and jars that came his way and, when their steady stream faltered, he dusted off his unsplintered hand and declared everything was in order. He approached the masked woman.

"Where did you find the little scoundrel?" He asked.

"She and this harlot—"

"Hey!" Interjected Menta, fists clenched.

"—were attempting to sneak around us. Not sure what their intentions were, but I brought them here with everyone else, just in case."

The man squatted to adjust his eye level around the average between Mala's and Menta's, then extended his one good hand in their direction.

"Name's Ungar Ero Jero, farmer and protector of the weak. What about you, girls?"

"My name is Menta, just Menta, and I am a mystic. Pleased to meet you!" She said, as she grabbed and shook one of Ungar's massive fingers.

Mala doubted whether to reveal her full identity or not, but Ungar emitted a comfortable aura of confidence around him. Like Menta, Mala grabbed one of his fingers.

"Mala Malvada. Pleasure."

"*Niña*!" Menta looked at Mala like she'd just stabbed her in the heart. "You act all mysterious around me like you don't have a name, and yet you casually reveal it around complete strangers? Consider me hurt!"

"I mean, they ain't askin' to suck anything outta me."

The mysterious woman stepped forwards.

"And I am Espiperina Longuina Lupina. A pleasure to make your acquaintance."

Mala and Menta attempted to contain their laughter without much success.

"That your real name?!"

Espiperina undid her step forwards, her whole body tensed.

"I'm sorry!" Menta covered her mouth with her hand. "It's just... it sounds made up, you know?"

Ungar giggled.

"You know... I have known your name for a few moons, but now that you have said it out loud in full, I must admit they have a point!"

Even the nearby crowd laughed.

Espiperina clenched her fists with such force that the leather of her gloves screeched in complaint. She stomped the ground.

"Enough!" Espiperina pointed at Mala. "Your name is 'evil'!" She looked at Menta "You are named after a damn plant!" She stepped with a stomp towards Ungar. "And yours... yours is just a silly pun! I will not be singled out!"

The other three could barely contain their laughter, but did their best to calm down.

"Have you gotten it out of your system already, huh?" Espiperina asked, anger still in her voice. "What now? What's the next step of your master plan, Ungar?"

"We build a huge bonfire." Menta interjected before Ungar could open his mouth. She looked at the orange sky, the twin moons nearing their zenith. "Trust me, just in case."