# How Do We Put It?

Brasa and Cendra did not extinguish the sun this time.

Many of Frontera's survivors returned to their homes, or what remained of them, to rest after so many sleepless hours. However, a small crowd decided, instead, to gather around the massive bonfire burning in the middle of the town square, fueled by splintered wooden furniture and smashed crates that were no longer fit to hold anything.

Mala sat the closest to the fire, holding on to a bottle of wine she'd nicked from the supply crates. She was mesmerized by the many orange and red tongues twisting and worming, tall above the surrounding buildings. Menta sat with the little Expiada in her lap, hugging her as if she were a doll, while Ungar and Espiperina relaxed behind them.

"So you burnt down Bodega." said Ungar.

"Not burnt down, more like warmed it up a little." replied Menta.

"And you say that stopped them from becoming monsters?"

"I guess? They seemed better off than Frontera, at least."

Ungar lowered his face, brow furrowed deep in thought.

"*Salve, Hacedor*, for your teachings have been proven yet again." he murmured.

No one but Mala heard that.

"I wonder why we didn't go insane like the rest." said Espiperina. "Are we somehow immune to this corruption?"

"Oh, no. You all *reek* of corruption so badly I am getting worked up just by being near you. I cannot stress enough how much I'd love to suck it out of you, if only I knew how." Menta gave Espiperina a sly glare, sticking her forked tongue out. "Alas, guess you will have to become my ritual experiment subjects!"

"Weirdo..." Espiperina whispered.

Mala stretched her arms.

"We ate. We drank. Now what?" she said.

Everyone looked at Ungar, who had been commanding the efforts to ensure everyone had their fair share of provisions. Ungar's eyes darted between the three girls.

Silence.

"Don't tell me this is how far your plans go." said Espiperina.

"We have plenty of stored food in barns and water in cisterns for days!" Ungar extended his arm and waved it around in the direction of the rest of the people. "There are so few survivors the supplies could last us a lifetime!"

The answer did not suffice Mala, who had spent the last few hours ruminating about her newfound desire for world domination.

"And the caravan survivors? And Bodega?" Mala inquired. "And the rest of the fucking survivors? What they gonna eat?"

"I'm sure they all have their own supplies..."

"The kid's got a point." Espiperina interrupted. "The Empire was not designed for a total disruption of its logistics. Many settlements are hyper-specialized, like Bodega, and rely on nearby populations to supplement their deficiencies. Frontera is somewhat of an oddball, due to its status as the de facto expedition launchpad into the continent, but we cannot expect for everyone to take care of themselves without help. Reestablishing the production and distribution of resources to nearby populations is necessary for their survival."

Ungar's jaw dropped, Menta's slit eyes crossed. Mala, however, was expecting such an answer.

"Where'd you learn that?" said Mala.

"I do my own research."

---

Early during the next suncycle, and despite Espiperina's insistence, Ungar had left for their stationed caravan to gather and guide all the survivors to Frontera. Espiperina helped the villagers carry cadavers outside of the city, where they could be safely burned to rest, while Menta decided to check on the chiri and dino farms to avoid seeing anything she would not like.

Ungar had talked to Mala before he left, and listed a bunch of things a scrawny kid like her could do to help: water extraction duty, tending to the fields, joining the newly formed search and rescue crew...

Or keeping the wounded company.

That looked easy.

The military barracks of Frontera had been turned overnight into a field hospital of sorts; with more than half of the garrison wiped out during the events of the dark mooncycle, there was plenty of space for its "barely survivors".

The first thing Mala noticed upon entering the barracks were the groans and wails of its inhabitants.

The second thing was the smell of dried blood: salty, metallic. The kind of smell that sticks to the roof of your mouth.

With way too much alcohol in her body for this time of the suncycle, she tumbled between the nurses tending to their patients, looking for someone who didn't feel like a pain in the ass to talk to.

Unconscious people, no.

The elderly woman missing both arms and legs, no.

The guy surrounded by nurses, no.

Kids bawling, fuck no.

Mala walked in circles, trying not to look directly into anyone's vacant eyes, in hopes of finding someone who wasn't wailing like they'd just lost everything in life.

After a few laps around the barracks, all that concentrated suffering was starting to get to Mala. She considered walking out and heading for the blat fields, when she stumbled upon an elderly man with a serene expression in his face. He was missing an arm, its stump covered in reddened bandages, and yet, judging by the relaxed position of his eyebrows, he seemed almost content with his predicament.

"You high or something?" Mala asked.

The man smiled. Without saying a word, he picked up a flask from under the sheets of his bed and raised it.

"Aw, shit! Can I have some?" Mala extended her hands and grabbed the air with them.

"Aren't you a bit young for that?"

"Yeah."

The man handed the flask to her, and she sipped from it. Some sort of herbal liquor; she wasn't going to complain.

"So... you come here often?"

"I used to," the man replied, "back when I was young. Now I am retired from the military life."

"I see, I see. So, what you do? You leech off your grandchildren?"

"No!" the man laughed out loud. "I'm part of Frontera's construction crew. Many retired soldiers end up becoming foremen like me. After all, they train us in the military to build bridges, camps..."

"Roads?"

"Yes, that too!" the man gave Mala a warm smile.

"Cool! Cool cool cool. So, when can you start again?"

Optimism left the man's face. He stared at Mala with the concern of a man yearning for retirement since the day he started.

*I should steer the conversation towards a more favorable topic.*

"Uh... what up with your arm?"

"Oh, my son almost chopped it off clean with a single hit of his gladius during the weird mooncycle. He is quite the strong man! I am very proud of him."

"Almost?"

"Yes. The physician said the chances of healing were null, so they opted for an amputation." The man extended his one arm towards Mala. She returned the flask to him, and he gave it a big gulp. "Ah, that hit the spot. Anyway, at first I was a bit worried because this physician is quite young and inexperienced; his mentor died a few months ago in a terrible accident with his slefir, but I digress. The thing is, you could almost see the color seeping off his face the moment he grabbed the saw!" he contained a giggle in fear of popping his stitches, "Luckily for me, that masked lady came out of nowhere, rested her hand on his shoulder and told him she would help. And help she did! Look at me!" he wiggled his stump.

"The masked lady, huh? Interesting."

"I must admit she is quite the eccentric woman, but she and the physician did a good job with the surgery."

"Did it hurt?"

"Like murder."

The bells of the nearby temple rang. A normal occurrence for the people of Frontera, but for Mala's sensitive Expiada ears, it was torture. Each toll hammered deep inside Mala's skull, so deep she had no choice but to dig her fingers into her ears in hopes of muffling the auditory onslaught.

*Of course, no one is here to cater to my specific sensibilities.*

Once she no longer felt the vibrations of the bells in her chest, she waved goodbye to the old man and rushed out of the barracks. Mala didn't know if the ring of the bells marked the end of her shift or anything like that, but any excuse was good to leave that somber place. Plus, she was getting kinda hungry.

Mala followed the flows of people towards what she assumed would be a place to scrounge some food. Lo and behold, they all converged on the least collapsed tavern in town, which was only missing its front wall.

A delicious smell emerged from the now-open-kitchen. Mala got a whiff of those tempting trails of aroma: the unmistakable scent of fresh bread, and something else being fried in oil. Her mouth watered, her stomach growled, and yet she could not help but keep thinking about what this implied.

*The production pipelines are being restored.*

The line to order was as long as the low population of the place allowed; long enough that Mala had no patience for it. She pranced and waltzed around people queueing to check if someone was distracted enough to not make a fuss when she slipped in front of them, when she stumbled upon the masked woman.

Mala waved at Espiperina, who was conveniently far ahead in the line.

"Yooooo!"

"Hello, little scoundrel. Have you already run your rounds?"

"Yup!"

"Here for a snack?"

"Also yup!"

Espiperina looked around.

"Why's the weirdo not with you?"

"Iunno. Maybe a dino ate her."

Espiperina rested her hand on her chin, deep in thought.

"She's not that small to be dino prey, is she?"

Mala furrowed her brow. Why did she even have to explain a joke that wasn't even good to begin with?

"I kid, I kid!" Mala flailed her hands in the air. "Geez, you always this unfun?"

"I don't like fun."

"Sure thing, smiley face. Anyway, can I jump the queue with you? I hungy."

Espiperina looked at the man waiting behind her, as if asking for permission. The man sighed, then nodded.

They shuffled forward with the queue, and soon enough, Espiperina and Mala were standing in front of the barman, a burly dude with thick eyebrows. Espiperina gave Mala uppies so she could see and order for herself.

The bar was made of solid tan stone and radiated a gentle yet unwelcome warmth that added to the stifling heat. The countertop had a few holes in it: pits of food kept warm and steamy by hidden embers underneath. Boiled chiri claws, jerky covered in melted cheese, a reddish and fatty looking bean pottage, and dino egg omelettes built like yellow bricks. Behind the bar and the barman, shelves stocked full of different shapes and sizes of bread.

Mala pointed at the omelettes.

"Omelette *sammich*!"

"I will have the same as her." said Espiperina.

The burly barman, his expression tired and movements mechanical, grabbed two long bread rolls from behind him, chopped them in half, then shoved yellow egg rectangles in both of them. Espiperina lowered Mala, then grabbed a roll in each hand, and nodded. The barman called the next in line.

Espiperina handed down one of the sandwiches to Mala, who was already extending her arms up.

They'd left the building when Mala noticed they didn't pay for the food.

"Ay, sick *sinpa*, *shur*. Very sneaky." Mala nudged Espiperina's side with her elbow.

"I understood half of those words."

"I mean, we left without paying, knowaddamasayin'? That a *sinpa*. *Sin pagar.*"

Espiperina giggled.

"Don't be silly, *niña*! No one is paying for anything today, least of all the things we need to live. It's just everyone helping each other survive, the harmonious way of our ancestors before the Empire took over. Besides, I don't think money makes much sense these days." Espiperina kept walking. "Come on, let's find a place to eat."

Mala followed behind with quick steps.

"Not a fan of the Empire, I see." said Mala.

"Oh, no, I love the Empire. It gives me purpose. Let's leave it at that."

After a short stroll, they found a stone bench to sit on. Espiperina sat, then patted the space next to her. Mala jumped onto the bench, then began munching on her sandwich.

And it tasted of glory.

The whole sandwich was too tall for Mala to eat in a single bite, so she wore it down with small nibbles, saving the omelette for last. The bread was still warm from the furnace, crunchy and with a faint scent of yeast. Maybe it was her hunger talking for her, but she swore it was the best loaf of bread she'd ever tasted.

And the omelette... still runny, with the sweet flavor and thick consistency of dino egg yolk. Each bite seeped syrupy goodness from within, and some of it ended up running down Mala's chin and onto her hood.

Mala started talking with her mouth full.

"So, you know a lot about shit."

"Only what's necessary."

"You know what the fuck was that thing with the moons, then?"

"That, I don't know. My network ran silent that day. I don't even think there is a name for it yet; as far as I know, it's unprecedented."

Mala scratched her chin, still sticky from the egg yolk.

"Uh... the Total Eclipse?"

"That's an oxymoron, Mala. Eclipses aren't total."

"True, true." Mala nodded, then jumped on top of the bench. "What about the Moons' Devouring of the Celestial Light?"

"Only a kid like you could come up with something as edgy as that! Besides, it's too long. It doesn't roll off the tongue."

"Yeah, well, I like it just right!"

Mala sat down again, lost in thought. After mindlessly nibbling on her sandwich, she noticed Espiperina had not taken a single bite of hers.

"You should eat." Mala told Espiperina. "To grow big and strong."

Espiperina turned her head towards Mala, her expression unreadable behind her white smiling mask.

"It gonna get cold." Mala continued.

"I will eat later in some lost corner, when no one is there to snoop. I'd rather not take my mask off in front of other people."

"And you call Menta a weirdo?!"

Once she finished her sandwich, Mala wiped her chin with one of her armwraps, then rested her arms behind her back, her feet dangling off the floor. She continued thinking about how to baptize the anomalous mooncycle phenomenon.

After a while, her face lit up.

"I know, I know! What about *Apagón*?"